you
so all the congregation lifted up their
voices and cried and the people wept
that night and all the children of
Israel complained against Moses and
Aaron and the whole congregation said to
them if only we had died in the land of
Egypt or if only we had died in this
wilderness why has the Lord brought us
to this land to fall by the sword that
our wives and children should become
victims would it not be better for us to
return to Egypt so we said to one
another let us select a leader and
return to Egypt then Moses and Aaron
fell on their faces before all the
Assembly of the congregation of the
children of Israel but Joshua the son of
nun and Caleb the son of Jephunneh who
were among those who had spied out the
land tore their clothes and they spoke
to all the congregation of the children
of Israel the land we passed through to
spy out is an exceedingly good land if
the Lord delights on us then he will
bring us into this land and give it to
us a land which flows with milk and
honey only do not rebel against the Lord
nor fear the people of the land for they
are our bread their protection has
departed from them and the Lord is with
us do not fear them
and all the congregation said to stone
them with stones now the glory of the
Lord appeared in the tabernacle of
meeting before all the children of
Israel then the Lord said to Moses how
long will these people reject me and how
long will they not believe me with all
the signs which I have performed among
them I will strike them with the
pestilence and disinherit them and I
will make of you a nation greater and
mightier than they are Moses said to the
Lord then the Egyptians will hear it
for by your might you brought these
people up from among them and they will
tell it to the inhabitants of this land
they have heard that you Lord are among
these people that you Lord are seen face
to face and your cloud stands above them
and you go before them in a pillar of
cloud by day and in a pillar of fire by
night now if you kill these people as
one man then the nations which have
heard of your fame will speak saying
because the Lord was not able to bring
this people to the land which he swore
to give them therefore he killed them in
the wilderness and now I pray
let the power of my lord great just as
you have spoken saying the Lord is
long-suffering and abundant in mercy
forgiving iniquity and transgression but
he by no means clears the guilty
visiting the iniquity of the father's on
the children to the third and fourth
generation pardon the iniquity of these
people I pray
according to the greatness of yours just
as you have forgiven this people from
Egypt even until now I have according to
your word but truly as I live all the
earth shall be filled with the glory of
the Lord because all these men who have
seen my glory and the signs which I did
in Egypt and in the wilderness and have
put me to the test now these 10 times
and have not heeded my voice
they certainly shall not see the land of
which I swore to their fathers nor shall
any of those who rejected me see it but
my servant Caleb because he has a
different spirit in him and has followed
me fully
I will bring into the land where he went
and his descendants shall inherit it now
the Amalekites and the Canaanites dwell
in the valley tomorrow turn and move out
into the wilderness by way of the Red
Sea and the Lord spoke to Moses and
Aaron how long shall I bear with this
evil congregation who complain against
me I have heard the complaints which the
children of Israel make against me
say to them as I live says the Lord just
as you have spoken in my hearing so I
will do to you the caucuses of you who
have complained against me shall fall in
this wilderness all of you who were
numbered according to your entire number
from twenty years old and above except
for Caleb the son of Jephunneh and
Joshua the son of nun you shall by no
means enter the land which I swore I
would make you do it little ones whom
you said would be victims I will bring
in and they shall know the land which
you have despised but as for you your
carcasses shall fall in this wilderness
and your son's shall be Shepherds in the
wilderness forty years and bear the
brunt of your infidelity until your
carcasses are consumed in the wilderness
according to the number of the days in
which you spied out the land forty days
for each day you shall bear your guilt
one year namely forty years and you
shall know my rejection I the Lord
have spoken this I will surely do so to
all this evil congregation who are
gathered together against me
in this wilderness they shall be
consumed and there they shall done now
the man whom Moses sent to spy out the
land who returned and made all the
congregation complain against him by
bringing a bad report of the land those
very men who brought the evil report
about the land died by the plague before
the Lord but Joshua the son of nun and
Caleb the son of Jephunneh remained
alive of the men who went to spy out the
land then Moses told these words to all
the children of Israel and the people
mourned greatly and they rose early in
the morning and went up to the top of
the mountain saying here we are and we
will go up to the place which the Lord
has promised for we have sinned and
Moses said now why do you transgress the
commandment the Lord for this will not
succeed do not go up lest you be
defeated by your enemies for the Lord is
not among you for the Amalekites and
Canaanites are there before you and you
shall fall by the sword because you have
turned away from the Lord the Lord will
not be with you but they presume to go
up to the mountain top nevertheless
neither the Ark of the Covenant of the
Lord nor Moses departed from the camp
then the Amalekites and the Canaanites
who dwelt in that mountain came down and
attacked them and drove them back as far
as hormann